>> Scott Moss: So for
this exercise what you're gonna be doing
is you're gonna be locking
down our APIs using JWTs.
So checkout to the lesson-5 branch.
The first thing to do is you're
create a sign-up controller.
So what is that?
In that same file you'll see
these three functions down here,
signup, signin and protect.
So in order to authenticate and
have people use our API.
We need them to sign up and sign in.
And this is where I said some routes
just don't work well with rest.
Authentication just really
doesn't work well with rest.
You just can't
really do authentication rest it
kind of just needs their own route.
So that's where sign up and sign in
are here, and they weren't there before.
So it needs a lot of people to sign up and
these are controllers, right,
request and response.
So you will need to implement
the sign up logic for
our API,
which means you have to accept email and
password which is basically
just creating a user.
But the most important part is you have
to send back an adjacent web token.
You don't have to worry about
hashing the password or
doing anything like that cuz that's
already done for you in the database.
If you go look at user.model,
I'm already doing that for you here.
So every time a user's
created I hashed a password.
I even allow you to check the passwords,
so you'll need that on signin.
So you don't have to worry about
that part, that part's done.
The part you're specifically worried
about is gonna be with JSON web tokens.
So we have to create signup,
which creates a new user.
And it's successful.
It responds back with
a token that you have to use
the new token method to create.
So that's one thing.
The next thing you have to do is you
have to create the sign in controller
which is very much like the sign up,
except for creating a new user, it checks
to see if the credentials that are coming
in, the email and the password, are valid.
In the database.
And if that is true, send back a new
token the same way the signup would.
So to send back a new token
if the signin is successful.
And how do you know if
the signin is successful?
Well, if the email and
the password matches.
And again, the passwords are hashed, so in
order to check the passwords you'll have
to use User.checkPassword.
So on the user model,
you will have access to a checkPassword
function that takes a password.
And from there, you'll be able to
check the password, I'm sorry,
not on the user model, on the user
document, the instance of the user.
When you crawl the database and
you get a user back, that user itself will
have a check password function on it
that you can pass in a password that
you wanna check and it'll compare
the two to see if the hashes match up.
So you don't have to worry
about doing that but
you will have to do that and sign in.
So given a password against the user,
check to see the passwords match.
If they do, Create a token.
If they don't, they're not authorized.
>> Scott Moss: The last thing is,
you've got to create a protect
middleware to lock down the API routes.
So, cool, we've got,
we have sign up and sign in.
But now we've got to
protect our API routes.
So, this is going to be middleware.
So, what you're going to do here, this is
where you're going to verify the token.
So, in every single route,
every single request is slash API.
You need to run this middleware protect.
It needs to execute.
And its job is to look for the adjacent
web token in the authorization header.
So, if you look in the authorization
header, you'll see a token on there.
You need to grab that token and
you need to run it through verify and
if verify passes, it's good.
If it doesn't pass, it's a wrong token or
somebody's trying to attack your website.
Yes?
>> Speaker 2: And we're protecting all
routes the same way?
We're not differentiating between routes?
>> Scott Moss: Every route that's
mounted at slash API should use this.
Yep, so you wouldn't put this
in front of sign up and sign in.
Because then you couldn't sign up or
sign in.
But you will put this in
front of all the other ones.
But if you go look at server JS, this
is where you're gonna add those routes.
So after you make sign up and sign in,
you need to register them here.
So you do like a app.
Post signup app.
post signin and
you'll put those controllers there.
And then for API you would add your
middleware either here, here, and here.
Or you can make a new mount for
everything at API use this one.
And it'll work for everything below it.
So it's up to you how
you want to add that.
But you will also have to
add those routes here.
>> Scott Moss: So I'll give you a tip.
The thing you're gonna run into that's
gonna be the most difficult at first for
sure is gonna be protect.
These signup and signin are not that
difficult but protect might be.
But because the format of the way
that JSON web token comes in.
A JSON web token comes
in a format like this.
So if you look at the authorization header
you'll see something like "Bearer " and
then a space, and
then you'll see the token here.
It's gonna come like that.
That's how it's expected.
If you don't see it like that,
then it's not correct.
And the test is testing for that.
So if it comes in just as a token,
then that's not right.
If it comes in as a token would something
or bearer with something after.
That's not right.
It has to come in just like that.
And that's what the test is testing for.
And you can look at the test and
see what exactly I'm talking about.
But that's what this function
should be testing for
is that the token looks like that,
and then you pop the token off and
you pass it to verify token
to see if it's real or not.
So one, does it have a token?
Two, is it formatted correctly?
Three, is it a valid token?
If all three of those pass
then you're good to go.
I think protect is also its job
is to take it a step further.
And not only verify the token, but
then go look in the database and
get the entire user.
And attach it to their request
object before calling next.
So after you verify the token,
you then need to do a database
query to see if this user exists.
So cool story you gave me a valid JWT,
that hasn't been expired yet, but
that user just deleted
their profile yesterday.
So I need to see if they're
a real a user in our database.
So that's why you take that extra step
to see even if they pass the validation,
is this even a real user still?
So that's why you do that
extra database crawl.
And again, the test is testing for
that as well.
Any questions on that?
Yes.
>> Speaker 2: The name
of the test is testauth?
>> Scott Moss: Yes, so
to run the test, you're just
going to run test npm run test-auth.
>> Scott Moss: There you go.
And you'll see a whole
bunch of test failing here.
>> Scott Moss: So there's already a test
for new token or verified token, but
those are already done for you.
But then here's a test that you'll have.
You've got two tests for sign up.
You got four tests for sign in and
about four tests for protect.
And they're pretty detailed so
I'll be helping out if you get stuck,
just let me know.
But it's four o'clock now.
We'll come back at 4:20 and
go over the solution.